>> Good morning.
Good morning, everyone.
I'm trying your trick, isn't that it.
Hi, everyone.
If you could please take your seat.
We're about to start.
I know you all.
I'll start calling
by name Giza.
Jacob, please take your seat guide.
Thank you.
Welcome again to the second
day of OSPO for good conference.
Today we're starting at 10.
I hope you had the extra 30
minutes sleep was beneficial.
We learned a lot yesterday.
We had very stimulating discussions.
We heard a lot aboutthe problems
andchallenges andopportunities and
strength of open source
in the community.
We had all these different panels where we
learned about open source
at the UN first.
We learned about open source and
artificial intelligence.
We learned about
open source in global south.
Last, we learned about open source in
government and heard
about some of the issues and opportunities
for open source within government.
Today we
have a different set of discussions.
I hope you will enjoy them just as much as
you enjoyed
yesterday.
Our first panel today will be about open
source at work in the world.
Here we
have a steamed list of speakers.
I'm very excited about that panel.
After that, we're
going to 11.30 when we finish that panel.
We changed the program.
Instead, we're going
to have a round table.
We hear from you a lot of colleagues.
A lot of people here wanted
something more interactive.
I will be calling on few institutions to
speak about to give
their work in the open source world
andshare with
us some concrete examples of how they
are leveraging open source.
Then we will break for lunch.
After that, we'll be coming for
the afternoon with a very interesting
panel about open source and youth.
It's organized
by our colleagues at UNICEF and UNICEF are
going to moderate that.
Right after, we're
going to have two more panels.
One about cities.
There's a massive open source revolution
happening within cities. There's a lot of
ospos being created within the cities. We
have here a super interesting six people
panel, five speaker plus moderator panel.
This is
going to be a very interesting one, very
diverse.
The last panel of the day, we kept the
best
for last is Sacheco andwe're going to be
aboutthe community
how to engage the community
and how we all of us could leverage the
community.
I hope you have an interesting day.
Before
that, I want to kick off with the lack
yesterday.
If we can have the word cloud, we'd love
to have your impression.
What is your expectation from today?
At the end of the day yesterday,
we heard from you what you learned, what
was your takeaway.
Now again, what do you expect
to learn by the end of the day?
They're on it in a second.
We heard you, beer was important
by the end of the day and coffee.
Hopefully this time.
Maybe we do it after.
Maybe we
do that at the end of the session.
Nick will be introducing the first panel,
please, Nick.
Welcome back, everyone.
Just as a reminder, if you need to use the
restroom, you'll have
to head up to the top and out there and
coffee is outside as well.
For our first session of
the day
we have a very exciting discussion lined
up around open source at work in the
world.
I'm sure you're thinking, well, what does
that mean?
It can mean a lot of things.
Yes, it can.
But we really wanted to use this session
to go back to basics and to talk about
how open source is being used at scale
across our entire societies and
the entire globe
as well asto talk aboutopportunities
forusing open source innovation and
working within
open source communities globally.
Your moderator for the panel will be
Sophia Vargas, an open
source researcher and analyst at Google, as
well as an active member of the open source
community around the chaos project.
Before we welcome the Sophia to the stage
and our
panelists,we will hear some reflections
fromour keynote speakers,Adriana Grohl and
Andreas
Rickert Loda,WHO both work in the German
government to advance the use and
sustainability of open
source technologies at scale.
Adriana is the co-founder of the Sovereign
Tech Fund, which
invests in the security and sustainability
of public interest digital infrastructures
and open source ecosystems in Germany and
beyond.
Andreas comes from the center for digital
sovereignty.
Sendis, as it goes by, is German acronym,
a unique open source office which
aims to advance the sovereignty and
independence of the German government's
digital infrastructure
using open source technology and open
communities.
Adriana and Andreas are going to give us a
very unique joint keynote showcasing the
broader vision of the German government
around open
source and
how they are increasingly seeking to link
up the agendas of their two offices.
Adriana and Andreas, welcome to the stage.
Good morning, everyone.
Oh, it is nice.
We're
honoured to give a keynote today,speaking
about
the roles of government in making open
source work.
For that, we want to give you an insight
into what we do at the Sovereign
Tech Fund and what we do at the Center for
Digital Sovereignty, why we think that work
is important andwhy we hope that
more governments will pick up such or
similar roles in the
future.
We believe thattogether we can holistically
strengthen the open source ecosystem and
achieve
digital sovereignty.
With digital sovereignty, we mean the
self-determined use of digital
technologies by governments, companies,
and individuals alike.
We can only achieve digital
sovereignty with a strong and resilient
open source ecosystem.
And for strong and open
source open source ecosystem,we need to
invest back intoit and
make use of it likewise.
So Andreas,we'll give you an insight now
in senders andI will follow up with
the Sovereign
Tech Fund.
Thank you.
So senders is a public owned company which
we built in 2023.
So we
are rarely new. And at the moment, we are
20 employers there and we would like to go
up into a triple for the next two years.
We are the competency service center, the
strange
digital sovereignty forthe federal
level,for the state level,and for
the local government
area.
And asyou all know,digital sovereignty is
a broad spectrum and
it's defined differently.
So our first task is to implement more
open source into the German government.
And therefore
we are the German OSPO, we could say.
And as Leslie was also announced from
Markus Lichtel.
And fromour side,it's very important to
use more open source for
more digital sovereignty
at the German government.
So senders supports a public
administration in reducing critical
dependencies of individual IT providers.
So we offer experience services and that is
much more important as I think.
We also do concrete solutions as
platforms, as products,
and we promote digital sovereignty for the
public sector.
So you may ask how we do that.
We bundle requirements fromthe public
sector andcollaborate with
the open source ecosystems
open source partners.
So some of them are already here, see a
lot of them.
And that's
how we work.
So we do not only do governance, we do
more.
We set up projects to enable to
use the use of open source in Germany. And
we'll go to two projects of us later on.
The Southern Tech Fund was also
established about two years ago.
We are a co-creation
actually between different people in
government and from civil society.
We are now about to
become 15 people working on strengthening
the open source ecosystem. We had a unique
start.
We were incubated in the federal agency
for disruptive innovation in Germany.
And
we're now spinning out becoming an
independent company also owned by the German
government.
Our core mission is to support the open
source ecosystem.
And we do that with a focus on
digital infrastructure. We define digital
infrastructure for us as the software that
developers need to develop software.
That gives us a really laser focus on the
people
in the open source ecosystem and the
maintenance of existing code.
And we really understand
that the open source ecosystem is the
foundation formany things that
we want to achieve.
Be
it innovation, competition, but also
transparency, participation, and democracy.
For thatwork,we're building up different
instruments as
part of the Southern Tech Fund.
Right now, we take a learning approach. We
start with one iterate and then go to the
next.
And we do thatin conversation withthe wider
ecosystem,especially Zendes in Germany
to make sure that the work that we're doing,
Andreas explained Zendes as the OSPO of the
German government.
I explain the Southern Tech Fund sometimes
as the machine or the engine
room that runs underneath it to make sure
that approach is aligned and what we're doing
supports Zendes mission and the impact in
the end is really seeable for government and
civil society and also companies.
Now, in this room, we could probably skip
that slide.
But it's always good to start withwhy
although everyone here cherishes the open
source ecosystem
and its communities. We heard a lot about
the values we see enshrined in open source
yesterday and that open source is a way of
working together and I think that is very
true.
I just said it's a foundation, a critical
foundation for many good things we want to
achieve and the best way actually to
achieve them.
But I would actually like to add that
there's another dimension andI think most
of you also heard those sayings and
know about
those numbers.
But once it was said software is eating
the world and then it was added
that open source software is eating
software faster than software is eating the
world.
And I would now like to add that
actually the success of open source
software is eating
open source software which basically means
that we have this amazing ecosystem that we
created largely bottom up with people WHO
put their heart and soul into it all the time
and we kind of take it for granted which
is not the reality.
It does not rain from the
heavens like every commonly shared good.
We cannot just use it.
We also need to really
take care of it. The numbers support that
as well. Let me be precise here. There was
one survey by the Harvard Business School
saying that open source software is valued
at 8.8 trillion.
It's in 96% of code bases and in 99% of
some commercial software consists
of open source software.
So just to add some numbers to it I think
the values we all hold
them up butfrankly we cannot afford we
cannot pay for
losing the open source ecosystem.
And
I think it's about time that we understand
this as a reality and that why open source
needs to work is that
we actually have no alternative or we
don't want to have an alternative
but to make it work.
It's the best thing that we came up with
and it's the most successful
strategy to achieving our goals and
missions.
So I think it's a good time that public
sector,
private sector and civil society sits down
together and thinks about the roles that we
want to fulfill in making open source work
for us and also giving back to ensure that
it's still around in the future thatit
still provides this engine room for
innovation and
participation and democratic values.
We will now deep dive a little bit into
how Zendis
is following up on this andthen I will
also give insight into
the sovereign tech fund.
Back to Andreas.
Thanks.
So as I earlier already said,
collaboration is one important thing.
And if we're talking
about open source software in the public
sector,we need to talk about
software distribution
infrastructure as well.
And if we want the government to procure
open source software,
we need to make procurement of open source
solution as easy as possible.
I think that's
a very important topic forthe German
government aseasy aspossible that
everybody is able
to use open source software.
And if you want, and this is what we do
with open code.
So
our platform is the first national wide
platform to whichwe will federal level
state level
and local government offices andauthorities
can search open source solutions
use open
source solution provides their own code,
collaborate together and reuse the software.
At the moment, we are currently have 4500
registered users at the platform.
We have 1, 500
repositories.
That's not as much as GitHub.
I already know.
But it's very important for
the German government and for the employers
WHO work with open source so that they trust
an open source.
So we create the infrastructure to promote
the use and provision of sustainable
open source solutions from the government,
from the government.
And you will find the
knowledge catalog introduction aboutopen
source at the public sector
provided advisors
about maintenance and licensing.
So what is exactly open source?
So nobody in this room
is it?
So we don't have to explain somebody here.
What is open source?
Well, how does
it work?
But there are a lot of people out there
WHO don't know what is about open source.
And that's what we are doing.
So in the end, from my perspective, it's
all about trust.
The public administration has to trust an
open source.
And that's what we are doing at the
moment with this platform to explain
everything.
And hopefully you can use a core code.
We
try to set everything in English so you can
use and see a lot of the platform what we
are doing at the moment.
And on the next slide, you see one of our
products, which is already
on the platform open code.
So OpenDesk is our take on the several
workday solutions.
Together
with currently eight open source product
vendors
which are certainly cases market leaders
in
their field, we created a joint product with
a solution for a task that we will have on
every day based and regular collaborations
and communications.
So this is what everybody
has to use every day.
And you all can see what products are in
there.
And we can explain
it maybe after that little deeper.
So unlike other work space solutions,
OpenDesk is a little
bit flexible.
So you can deploy OpenDesk in every
infrastructure.
You can deploy it in
a submarine.
You can deploy it on a hyperscaler.
It's all Kubernetes based.
And that's what
we are doing.
We want to have the choice in which
infrastructure we deploy our work space.
That's what we defined.
And that's what we are doing there.
And together with the open
source vendors, we are providing security
level.
We provide us innovation.
We try every day
to have a look at what is the need of the
public administration and
rebuild what is the
need and that's what we are doing there.
And at the moment, OpenDesk is free to
download
on OpenCode.
And we will launch the enterprise version
in the end of the year and also a software
service solution forthe German public
administration so
that everybody is able to use an
alternative.
I will not say the other vendors at the
moment,but you all know what I mean aboutit.
So
And OpenDesk is not just the topic of
interest in Germany.
So yesterday you heard about that
other countries already is cutting that
topic.
And at the moment, we are in touch with
several
European states and countries to roll out
OpenDesk.
And through all of it, so doing it
was France to collaborate in the next steps
for using OpenDesk. So I know it's right
now again.
Before explaining a little bit better what
a sovereign tech fund is doing, I need to
come back to our mission once again
because
I think it's a little harder to
understand.
And we have this great situation that if
we are doing our job very well, nobody will
notice because it's invisible.
Only if we're not doing our job well and
something doesn't
work,then people will notice,which is not
a situation one wants to be in
but unfortunately
it's a very important work that needs to
be done.
So as I said, we are now supporting
the foundational technologies thatwe need
to build,maintain and
run other digital technologies.
So software thatis very invisible formany
people WHO
are not themselves software developers
and WHO works most of the time amazingly,
but sometimes it breaks.
And it breaks more
often.
The more people just take from it and use
it and the fewer people give back and
maintain it. So we have a situation where
we really need to pick up this job that is
right now mostly done by volunteers in the
open source communities and
sometimes supported
by bigger foundations and by industry.
But we see that there is a real role for
government
to understand thatin the 21st
century,infrastructure includes software
meaning open source software.
And thatwe need to build organizations
thatcan pick up that
job in supporting the digital
foundations that we all rely on.
So we are doing a couple of things by now,
but we started
very focused andsmall because
what we are doing is pretty new by
defining the maintenance
of existing open source software as
a public service using public money to
commission work
in those software projects.
For that we set up the sovereign tech
fund, which operates
with about17 million euro by the federal
ministry of economic affairs in Germany
investing
that in technologies that the team at the
sovereign tech fund scouts, identifies and
then commissions work in,in an exchange
withmaintainers WHO
have of course a very high
level of expertise.
And also we have an application platform
because not everything we can find,
we can scout, we see, we also want to be
approachable.
That is what we started with.
Now unfortunately,
money doesn't fix all problems.
It would be great if that would be the
case, but oftentimes
the real issues are structural in nature
andyou need to think aboutmany different
like
a portfolio of instruments to tackle those
challenges.
So besides investing in about 45
different technologies, since we started,
we are now thinking about other instruments
that we are building up.
Those include a fellowship to provide a
situation in which different
maintainers find themselves in a better
position to do work thatis very necessary
andvery
critical for all of us, but never gets the
kind of resources and time that it needs.
We also understand thatstandards in open
source software development go hand in hand
andif
you only do one or the other, you might
not achieve the impact that you desire.
So we
also think about how the summer tech fund
could pick up a role in this area. We also
see that diversity and generally the lack
of people WHO do maintenance work in open
source software is a huge issue that will
especially play out mid and long term.
So even
again,if we had unlimited amount of
money,resources
we don't have the amount of people
WHO are capable and willing to do the
work.
So we need to think about how can we bring
in new talent here?
How can we inspire people WHO have fun, of
course, doing innovation,
being part of hackathons, then to also pick
up maintaining the code that they need to
work with to innovate.
So that is a big focus that we have right
now.
We have already a
bug resilience program running whichis not
just a bug bounty but
also a bug fixing program
and I think even better, you know,
prevention is always better than cure.
We also want to
train open source communities in not coming
into a situation where they know they have
a list of bugs butthey simply don't have
the time at hand to fix them which
is not a situation
anyone wants to be in.
So as you can see, we're going step by
step in building a new kind
of public institution that
identified a few pain points I'd like to
say in the open source
ecosystem andthen designing programs
together withthe communities and
stakeholders in trying
to tackling them sustainably so
that in the future we still have this
amazing resource
at hand but we fixed maybe some structural
issues that come from a long history of how
we're working together and that we
identified so we can work on this.
I think we can already
go now to our last slide whichis answering
what the topic of our keynote is
what's the
role for governments?
So I think it's pretty clear that we
benefit massively from the open
source ecosystem andthat we cannot
outsource as
governments maintaining this ecosystem
just
to volunteer communities and to the
private sector.
We need government in this mix as well
and then everyone needs to talk to each other
and make sure that the roles that we pick
up are complementary so
that in the end the whole ecosystem gets
stronger in this sense
of the tight lifts or boats because we all
rely on it.
Before we build these organizations
I think it's very important that we really
take the time to understand the production
logics of the open source ecosystem,how
communities operate and
what these briefly mentioned
structural challenges are becauseonly if
we take thattime
if we really have a conversation
with maintainers, with the communities, also
with private interests, as a government we
can build this new organization like
senders like the sovereign tech fund
pick up this
new kind of public service of understanding
infrastructure in the 21st century
including
software, not just roads and bridges, and
then have meaningful instruments in place.
But I think the step is very crucial
becauseit's not as
Andreas said we all know why open
source is great, other people don't.
We know why we believe that governments
should play
a role in this ecosystem, others don't.
So I think this work needs to happen first
in
order to have meaningful instruments and
then we might have really reached a
different level
in which we have this resource at hand in
the future as well, we don't lose it, we can
drive innovation,economic growth,we can
secure democratic values
we have participation
from many different stakeholders andwe
can,yeah,make government
make open source work
for good in the world. Thank you.
Thank you so much to our speakers for the
amazing keynote.
Good morning everyone.
I'm
going to do something a little bit
different and
I'm going to have my panelists introduce
themselves.
I'm excited to hear today to talk about
open source at work in the world and
I really want to kind of rephrase that to
open source work itself.
As a researcher in open
source, I'm fascinated by the variety and
organic nature in which people from a variety
of backgrounds come together to co-create
software and co-create projects, even though
they might become fromdifferent places,different
incentives,different motivations.
Why do they
do this?
Why do they continue to create and be
productive in these spaces?
So I'm really
excited to be joined today by a number of
panelists with
incredible experience in this
space. Without ado, I'm going to go join
them on stage.
Okay, because I didn't introduce anyone,
I'm going to have to introduce themselves.
We'll
start on the right here.
Can you briefly describe your role, your
background in open source
and what organizations you represent
today? Oh, press the button.
There we go.
Looks a little bit different.
Good morning everyone.
I am Dimitris Chidom.
I'm currently the chief of staff to the
CEO at GitHub.
I see many of my friends in the
audience today, so you may be familiar with
me in my former role at GitHub where I led
diversity, inclusion and belonging.
And before that, I was at Red Hat leading
diversity and
inclusion, so I have a pretty long history
in open source.
Hi, I'm Mike Milinkovich.
I'm the executive director of the Eclipse
Foundation.
I'm in
the open source community now for 20
years.
My developer days are behind me, but so
running
the Eclipse Foundation and Eclipse
community is my experience in open source.
And it's
been a really fun ride for the last 20
years.
Hi, my name is Anir Chodri. I'm the policy
advisor of the A2I program in Bangladesh,
Bangladesh government, which started at
the prime minister's office.
Now it's part of
the ICT ministry and
cabinet office basically leading digital
transformation within government
and open source is actually an integral
part of it.
About 20 years ago I started the first
open source organization
a nonprofit in Bangladesh called
Bangladesh Innovation through
open source or BIOS.
Recently open source has been seen within
the government as an enabler
to not only sustainable software,secure
software formeeting development goals
but also as
a driver of innovation.
And the movement within the government in
the last few years on digital
public infrastructure or DPI has really
been enabled by open source.
We're now exploring
the possibility of a new DOS,not the
proprietary DOS thatwe are familiar with
but the new
DOS development operating system.
So the components that will allow us to
build new innovations
for public good. Thank you.
My name is David Nally.
I'm the president of the Apache Software
Foundation.
The ASF's
been around for about 25 years now.
We're celebrating our 25th year acting as
a steward
for open source software. I'm a relative
newcomer to the ASF. I've only been around
for a dozen years.
There are a number of folks here in this
audience WHO've been participating
at Apache much longer than I have.
But I have the pleasure of serving as the
president
at the moment.
And the ASF acts as that steward for
roughly 320 different software products,
several hundred open source projects.
And we take that responsibility seriously,
because
while we've been around for25 years
and we have honed in on one possible way
to develop
open source.
And we've been able to draw nearly 750,
000 contributors over that 25 years.
We also recognize that software has a
lifecycle.
And sometimes you need to signal that not
only is software available, but maybe it's
unsupported. And so we take that role as
a steward very seriously.
And I talked a moment ago about how many
products and how many projects.
But we've also retired andessentially
advertised to the public that89 projects that
used to
be Apache projects can no longer be
trusted.
And Apache projects range from the
foundational
building blocks like Apache Commons or
Apache logging to things that
have transformed the
industry like Spark, Hadoop, Tomcat,
iceberg and airflow.
This has been an interesting journey
for us going fromthe original namesake,the
Apache web server to today where
we have several
hundred folks and are recognized not just
for the software that we produced, but our
processes around IP hygiene, security and in
fact our license, which is one of the most
commonly adopted licenses. Thank you so
much.
Thank you everyone for introducing
yourself.
I want to start with a pretty informal
question,
which is what brought you to open source
individually.
And if you have been a maintainer of an
open
source project, why were you doing it? I'm
going to start with you, Mike.
So I did not start as a maintainer of an
open source project.
I was recruited as the executive
director of the eclipse foundation.
But then the question becomes, why did I
want the job?
And yeah, there are days.
Mama told me days like that.
But so 2004 was a very, very different
world andopen source was a much newer
thing in 2004 than it is today and
certainly not
nearly as mainstream.
But fundamentally I was fascinated by the
idea that communities
could come together anddevelop software
productively together and
many times without ever meeting
each other entirely over the internet and
doing amazing things without the
hierarchical
control that we're familiar with in our
daily corporate lives.
So this idea of building communities,
building sustainable communities thatare
working productively together for
the betterment of
our societies and economies was something
that was why I wanted the job.
And I can say that
after 20 years of doing it, it remains
endlessly fascinating.
There's never a dull moment.
Thanks for that.
What about you, Demetrius?
Sure.
So mine is definitely a lot more personal.
I grew up.
My mom was a single mom with three kids in
college and I was the youngest and
she was making 13, 000 hours a year when I
graduated from high school. And I luckily
found a magazine thatsays one of the top
salaries was forpeople that
had a computer science
or computer engineering degree.
And that's how I, you know, magically pick
my major.
And
that was transforming for me.
And so I was always just inspired by
trying to get as many
people into tech as I possibly could.
And then when I learned about open source,
I personally
assert thatopen source is the lowest
barrier to entry forpeople WHO
want to participate
in software development and computer
science or just technology.
And so I actually was
inspired by open source and to get involved
and to try to get as many people especially
from underrepresented andmarginalized
communities intotech so
they can have some of those life
changing transformations that I personally
did.
Thank you so much for sharing that.
What
about you and here?
Well, since my software development days
almost 30 years ago, I spent
about 13 years in the U.
S.
building companies, startups, the East
Coast.
And a lot of them
are actually using open source software.
So I'm actually building open source
software.
So whenI returned to my home country
Bangladesh about17 years ago and
started this journey
of digital transformation fromthe
government side
I wanted to slowly develop policies
are open source adoption andthen finally
building open source from
within the government
ecosystem.
So it's a journey that spans almost three
decades, personally starting with open
source consumption creation and then taking
that into the policy realm of doing it at
a national scale.
In the last three years Bangladesh has
also been the secretary of a
network called South South Network for public
service innovation, SSN for PSI, which is
now about 40 plus countries of the global
south now exploring the concepts of digital
public infrastructure and also in a hidden
manner, open source.
Open source is not as
easy to think from within government and also
not as easy to think even from the private
sector.
But we're trying to find ways to promote
it developing or rather promoting the
right type of business models as well. So
in different ways, I've been trying to do
my part to promote open source. Thank you
and David last.
So I started I had long been a user of
open source software and
I started contributing
to open source to solve problems that I
would have with a specific piece of code.
And that
was a project called postal, which was an
SMTP testing tool.
And I do not live and have
never lived in one of the tech hubs in the
United States. And so seeing that I could
go fix a problem anddidn't need to ask
permission and
didn't need to live in San Francisco
or New York City,I realized thatopen source
opened up a lot of interesting problems.
And
so I began to contribute to other projects
and eventually became employed to work on
those open source projects.
And the the stunning thing for me as an
individual was the opportunity
to tackle hard problems and then share the
results that I had come to with other people
so that they could also solve their
problems.
And that ability to not just solve my own
problems,but solve other people's problems
and
work on fascinating problems was the draw
into open source for me.
Great.
And I'm really appreciating all these
personal stories because
I think I really wanted to highlight here
is the diversity and
motivation we heard about
the interest and fascination, the interest
in solving problems, the interest to educate
and learn new skills and a place to learn
to create, to build, to build new solutions.
For me personally, it was a lot about
learning.
As a researcher, I was excited about the
fact
that I could just go join a community and
learn more about open source and participate
in it directly and learn from experience.
But then I ended up staying because I had
a
lot of fun.
It was an incredible space to meet people
that are solving similar problems,
interested in similar problems.
And when we look at the research, it tends
to collaborate
with that.
People are often brought to open source
for educational purposes, but then
stay for other reasons, whether or not
that's fun or altruism.
And I wanted to bring that
up becausewe've been hearing frommany
organizations aboutwhy they as
an organization want to
pursue open source solutions
either within government or within broader
organizations.
But the people themselves thatchoose to
participate are there for
a variety of reasons?
And whether
or not they stay, they or may not be
related to that.
And so in terms of people getting
brought to open source, I'm also curious
about why they stay.
And here on stage with me, we
have people representing a number of
different organizations that
are designed to create collaboration
spaces for open source software
development.
And I'm curious from each of them, which
aspects
of their platform,their organization
are best designed to encourage sustained
participation
not just bringing people to a cause,but
keeping them there,keeping them engaged
keeping them
productive and collaborative.
And so I'm curious what those aspects are,
whether or not they're
incentives or nudges.
I'm going to start with Mike again in
terms of what you've seen in
your space.
That's a big and complicated question.
But let me start off by saying that one of
my takeaways from yesterday, there's lots
of interest in talking about how open source
can help governments achieve various
sustainability goals.
But, and Adriana really talked well
about this, is like, we have a
sustainability problem in open source.
And it's really important
to recognize that we are constantly demanding
more from open source developers and open
source communities.
You know, security being one of the big
topics these days with things
like the Cyber Resilience Act,we're
constantly demanding more and
more of the developers WHO
work in these communities and on these
projects.
And that's unsustainable, given the
current
set of economic nudges that are out there.
And that's personally one of the reasons
why
I'm soexcited about
the Sovereign Tech Fund is they're
actually doing something tangible
to help.
In terms of, you know, the kinds of things
that we do at the CUPS Foundation,
I'll just sort of echo some of the things
that David talked about.
And one of the things
to recognize is that, all technology have
a life cycle.
And putting something in a patch
that they call it,putting it in the
attic,it's what we call it
putting it in the archive.
But,you know,the fact that
a project comes to an end of the life is
not a sign of failure
it's just the way life goes. And so having
processes where you can identify projects
and really manage them through a life
cycle is definitely part of the solution.
It's not
the solution, but it's definitely part of
the solution.
And recognizing that projects
are exciting when they start.
They're exciting when they get broadly
adopted and used.
But
everything eventually becomes legacy.
And at some point you have to recognize
that.
And
then you're into a very different kettle of
fish because you don't, it's not exciting.
So attracting new developers becomes more
difficult.
And the incentives for the people
that are maintaining the code become --
it's less -- it's more difficult to do that
with
purely intangible incentives.
If you're tirelessly maintaining a
20-year-old code base, I really
hope that the economy and society is using
in a large way, you're probably looking for
some kind of paycheck to do that.
And that's not all universally true, but
that's definitely
one of the things to keep in mind is
thatwe talk aboutinfrastructure and
we talk about
sustainability.
But I don't think we spend enough time
really thinking about what that
means astechnology truly matures
andbecomes thatlegacy infrastructure that
everybody is
using and everybody needs, but it's just
not exciting anymore.
And yeah, with that I'll
hand the baton over.
>> Can I jump in, Mike?
So there is a theory of communities of
practice.
And Mike will talk aboutthe Eclipse
community andI will talk about
the Apache community.
And the reality is thatwhile there might
be an Apache community
there's really a couple
hundred communities that are oriented
around a problem.
And so I don't think of this as
so much community of practice as community
of problem.
And that community forms around
solving a particular problem and working
to solve that.
And as long as that problem exists,
hopefully a community will continue to
exist to solve it.
We do have the problem that a
lot of this is assumed to be solved.
And people take it for granted.
I think Ben yesterday
talked aboutdisruptive technology becoming
mainstream and
then becoming infrastructure.
If you assume thatunderlying libraries
like Boost or Apache Commons just exist and
you
can take it forgranted,that's going to be
problematic when
you need to build a resilient
infrastructure because someone needs to be
taking care and maintaining that over the
long term becausethose are not going
away,we're going to continue to need that
software.
It continues to solve a very active
problem today.
But because it's not exciting, because
we've got 20 years history, we end up in a
place where people take that for granted.
And I think doubly so for governments where
they understand they have to maintain the
electrical grid,they have to maintain
highways
they have to maintain rail infrastructure.
Same is true for software.
And I think by and large, most of the
governments are looking
and seeing open source as a digital public
good and they like that. But they're also
not recognizing that there is some ongoing
maintenance and that maintenance will have
to be paid by all of the members of the
community,not just the government and
not just the folks
WHO are contributing as volunteers.
I'm going to direct it to our policy
advisor here for coming on that.
So now I'm just going to jump into it.
Thank you for preempting that.
So I think open source
has been particularly successful as
infrastructure.
So if you look at the web platforms, if
you
look at the programming languages, I think
it's been just incredibly successful. But
I really like the way David has focused on
problem solving.
So essentially we need building
blocks to solve problems.
Let me give you one problem that we may
all be familiar with.
The problem of monitoring pregnancies,
high risk pregnancies in every country.
So what
happens in Bangladesh is that we have about
70, 000 community health workers within the
government andin almost an equal number
within the NGOs
particularly one large NGO called
BRAC, which is apparently the largest NGO
in the world.
So these 140, 50, 000 health workers
go from door to door for antenatal visits.
But they don't know which the high risk
pregnancies
are.
So it's an averaging of the effect.
So they go to all doors without knowing
maybe
there are 10% high risk pregnancies. So now
that's a problem. Let's say we give that
problem to the open source community. What
will the community do? Will they actually
come up witha few components of wearable
computing
which is a combination of hardware
and software in a frugal manner to have
the pregnant women wear that
and provide data?
Will they actually come up with
the infrastructure that's necessary to do
the analytics forthe
health decision makers and also the feed
level workers?
Will they actually come up with the
way to identify using AI perhaps, finding
patterns of high risk pregnancies?
And will
they actually come up withdashboards
thatwill maybe modify the schedule services
right?
So to solve this problem, we won't get too
much from the open source community.
Today
we will get the programming languages,
maybe Python and PHP and so on and so forth.
We
may get the infrastructure support, but can
we think of a developing operating system
which goes beyond the likes of maybe DHIS
2 in health
which does only routine information
right?
So if we can take some social problems,
development problems and build open source
communities around them and not expect, I
could really agree with David that they will
be volunteers,that they'll get paid in
some manner
they will actually take the pride in
solving social and economic problems, not
just technical problems, but also there is
career path, there is recognition, there
is compensation.
So I think we need to think
about open source business models in a
fundamentally different manner right now
connected to the
SDG since we are sitting at the UN
connected to solving the development
problems of every
nation.
And that's when open source community
could actually elevate itself to the next
level of solving problems, real problems
of the world. Thank you.
Thank you for that.
I want to kind of reorient this a bit to
call on Demetris.
I know you
might need to leave soon fora flight,so
we're going to make sure we use you while
you're
here.
We talked a lot about the maintainers and
the people that are required to continue
the sustainability of these projects.
But there's also the question of how do we
encourage
more people to participate?
And I really love your story about how you
saw this as a low
barrier to entry into the technology
industry.
And I want to call out one of the programs
that you've helped to build all in
which is really focused on encouraging
open source
participation from a variety of
backgrounds and creating inclusive spaces.
And I'm curious
in terms of encouraging the next generation
of contributors and maintainers, what were
the most important tenets foryou or how
that
you see in terms of creating inclusive and
welcoming spaces to people that might not
have the background of paper that would be
a fit for these sorts of things. Sure. As
Sophia mentioned, I created a program
while a GitHub call all in.
And it was founded to encourage the next
generation of people
that may have not even had exposure to
open source to get open source skills and
opportunity
to join an organization to actually start
their career.
And one of the things that we
immediately saw was that we focused really
on students at the beginning.
And we realized
that not all computer science curriculums
or technical curriculums at university
were
created equal.
And people had varying degrees of
technical skills.
And so what we saw was
most important that
open source communities could do was give
everybody an opportunity
to meaningfully contribute.
I know there's an age-old debate in open
source on whether
or not an open source contributor is a
coder or a non coder.
And we just talked about that
Mike, right?
Where, you know, there's so many aspects
beyond coding that you can actually
encourage people WHO
may not have the coding skills just yet to
meaningfully contribute
whether it's managing your budget, whether
it is, you know, advocacy work, whether it
is, you know, supporting documentation, all
of those things while they get their skills
up and while you mentor them. So that was
one of the main things that they mentioned
that they needed to just have some meaningful
ways to contribute andrecognition for
doing
so.
The second thing that we saw was just making
sure that people -- well, that projects
had really clear documentation on how to
meaningfully contribute.
And then what we found, interestingly
enough,we did a 2021 survey on open source
diversity,equity,and inclusion is that
most
people said thatthey didn't feel welcome
in communities because
of lack of responsiveness.
Literally when they would reach out and no
one would respond, that was why they didn't
feel welcome.
And so once we started talking to
maintainers, it wasn't because they didn't
want people to feel welcome.
Maintainers were just juggling a lot of
other things.
And so
we have to make sure going back to
thatprevious question thatwhen we're talking
aboutsustainability
that we also look at things like health
well-being,maintain a burnout
even beyond the funding
because all of us know thatyou can get
paid a whole lot of money
but if you're burnout
you will walk away from it.
And so there's so many different aspects
of it.
And so we
just need to make sure we're looking at it
in a holistic way.
Thank you so much for that.
Speaking of burnout, we've been talking a
lot about the promise
of what open source can do for us, for the
world, for our individual communities.
But
not everything goes well.
It's not all sunshine and roses.
So I'm curious if any of you have
any particular examples of pitfalls to
avoid or areas of caution.
If you're seeking to
create a collaboration or collaborative
space,what can go wrong and
how do we try to mitigate
that? Anyone?
I mean, you're looking my direction, so I
assume that means you want me to talk.
I don't know
if you're going to like my answer.
So I talked earlier about community of
practice and community
of problems.
And so I think the thing that you want to
ensure that you have is a common
purpose, maybe even a common vision.
I think it's perfectly okay to have
differences of
opinion about technical implementation and
maybe even style.
Dare I say even opinions
about VI versus EMACs?
Tabs versus spaces.
Tabs versus spaces is another one.
But your
community of problem needs to have a common
purpose thatthey're trying to solve so
that
everyone is pulling in the same direction.
And if you don't have that, I think you're
setting yourself up for a lot of
disruption.
If there's not a shared vision or a shared
problem statement thatpeople can
collaborate around,you know,I think that
there's plenty
of people WHO can write software.
There's plenty of people WHO can
collaborate and we've
got great tools like GitHub, GitLab and
others that facilitate that collaboration.
But at
the end of the day, the hard thing is the
people problem.
And those people need to be
unified,at least in the direction of a
problem
hopefully in a vision of the solution to
the
problem.
And so without that, I think there are a
lot of pitfalls that beset you.
And
I'll just add a little bit more
because,first of all,I agree with
everything David said.
But let's not forget that it actually helps
to write down the rules and make sure that
those rules are known.
So things like community codes of conduct,
things like contributing
guides,and even things like channel
guidelines
all of these little bits of documentation
in terms of what the expectations are
really help.
And one of the things we do, and it's
kind of like every community has its own
history,but generally speaking
we've had a sort of
a culture of keeping the discourse even on
our mailing lists at a sort of a
professional
level. And I know that's not true of all
communities, but it is mostly true of ours,
and it's been a blessing.
And so that's one of the things, but
setting up that cultural
expectation changes as you get new projects,
and you have to kind of reset them.
And doing
that, the best way to do that is make sure
that the rules are clear, and that the rules
are known, and the rules are enforced.
I remember, bazillion years ago, I was a
hockey coach,
and I read it for almost 20 years.
And one of the first things I've ever got
taught as
a hockey coach is,you've got a bunch of
boys,the first thing they want to know is
what
are the rules, and are you going to
enforce them?
And it turns out that coaching developers
is actually not that different.
I appreciate that.
You actually kind of answered my next
question, which I was just going to
mention that it's natural for people to
disagree. We've had a couple examples, just
a little bit there.
And I think there are a lot of tools that
can be effective at resolving
that conflict thing.
I think you just mentioned a lot of them,
having actual rules of procedure
or code of conduct, ways that we will interact
with each other and agree to disagree, and
we have a process forward.
I think it's really important to have ways
to handle conflict,
to be able to resolve issues as they come
up, or be able to address them as needed.
I also want to talk a little bit about what
something David brought up earlier, and I
think a couple of you have mentioned since
then, is that not every project is going to
be around forever.
We have a lot of incredible ideas and
visions of what people intend to
build andwhat people have already been
building in this room thatwe've heard of for
the last
day or so.
But not everything works out.
And sometimes there's a moment where you
have
to step back and acknowledge, do we need
to adapt?
Do we need to evolve?
Do we need to
let this end naturally because this
project has reached end of life?
It is no longer relevant.
And I'm curious what you would recommend
for this group here.
How do you know when you
need to do that?
And then if you do, what are some examples
of effective either sunsetting
or adaptation that allowed for the
community to continue to evolve?
So I will jump in.
At the Apache Software Foundation, I'm not
saying that this is the
only way, but we have a number of
guidelines.
The first is that you need to have enough
community participants WHOare already
involved in the project WHO
can perform a release.
If you cannot release software, you are no
longer viable.
We also have a number of other
things that we're looking at like, are you
able to respond to security issues?
Because
again, if you're not able to respond to a
security issue, then we as an open source
steward cannot responsibly tell the public
that they should continue to consume your
product, your software.
And so we have a number of those things
that we're looking for.
I
would say the two big ones are, can you
still perform releases?
And that can't be just a
single person.
That needs to be a community around it.
At Apache, we would not allow a
single maintainer project becausewe
believe that
it is not fulfilling our responsibilities
as steward to permit that kind of single
point of failure.
And so we're actively looking
for multiple people that are engaged in the
project, can perform releases, can handle
security issues and things of that nature.
And then -- so did oh, again, but carried
on a little bit farther.
But then you need to have the ceremony,
right?
And so one of
the things,you know,this community of
practice idea is to a certain degree
it's built up
around the notion of you celebrate some
ceremonies.
So when a project is, you know, proposed
or created, exits incubation, there's this
life cycle and you have a little bit of a
ceremony andthey've,you know,but you need
to have a funeral,too
for the projects when
they come to an end.
And a public disclosure that this project
is no longer viable and
it's come to the end of its life.
So in addition to, like everything David
said, don't forget
about actually having the ceremony. >>
Yeah. So someone needs to close up shop
when it's over.
And, you know, not speaking for Mike, but
I think that's one of the key
roles that foundations play, is to tell the
world whether they can continue to trust a
given project or not. >> I think on
understanding what projects
we can trust is also an important part of
evaluation.
And I'm curious, from your perspective,
and asyou're guiding andadvising your
government on what to use andhow
what are the things
you're looking at to ensure thatyou are
actually picking something that
is continuing to be
a viable solution for them? >> I think
from a government procurement
standpoint, we need to reform what we have
today, at least in Bangladesh and possibly
in many other countries that I'm familiar
with.
The way software companies are suppliers
often bid for projects is time and
material spaces.
So when you're actually using open
source versus not open source, when you're
actually building code that you open source
yourself, they need to think differently.
So when you open source, when a supplier,
open
source is its product, building
differently about competition.
So what if this code is
completely open,the ones thatthey're producing
completely open to other competitors?
So what
happens in the next time, David?
Within the government, you don't really
retire anything.
So the concept within government is you
don't ever solve a problem fully
because you cannot.
These are very complicated social,
economic development problems.
So you solve it as much
as you can,and then you bring in the
second iteration,the third iteration and
so on and
so forth.
And in today's government software, we are
actually seeing a lot of silos that
need to be bridged. So health will produce
its own thing, education will produce its
own thing,but then you're seeing
thatyou're actually working with
the same set of population
data.
And you have all these silo databases
thatyou need to bridge to come up with
integrated
policy making that is less costly for the
country.
So when you do that, there are many
iterations that happen.
So essentially you need to come up with
cross agency procurement
policies, which often don't exist.
So there's the policy of procuring open
source and procuring
in a way thatwhatever you build will be
open sourced,will be open,which means that
you
change business models.
And then also do integrated procurement.
So essentially what we're looking
at is a problem that has not been solved
within government, most governments.
The German presentation
that we saw that
is actually creating an OSPO is probably a
first step towards educating
the policymakers about how to deal with open
source in a manner that is sustainable, in
a manner thatis cost effective,in a manner
that
is actually beneficial to creating common
good. That goes across multiple
ministries.
Thank you.
I'm going to move to the next question,
and I'm going to direct it at you Demetris.
We've been talking a lot abouthow open
source itself can be an effective tool
and maybe
you can start using it forfree,but we all
know andwe've talked aboutit here
maintaining
it requires a lot of time, energy, money
just to sustain it over time.
And we've also been
talking a lot aboutcivic engagement andhow
governments can participate and
how they can
engage.
But I'm curious from your experience, what
are the most effective ways for consumers
of open source,whether or not they're
individuals or governments or institutions
to support
and sustain the individual and the
individual.
I mean, you can think about open source
projects
as well,but I'm curious abouthow we
sustain open source contributors and
maintainers and
support them.
Yeah,I think one of the ways is
fororganizations,whether government,civic,you know
corporations
to allow the opportunities for those that
want to participate in open source, the space
to do so.
One of the things that we heard a lot from
all of our maintainers in our focus
groups was thatthey would have some
amazing contributors to their projects
they would
upskill them,and then all of a sudden a
company would see them,you know,very viable
andcome
in and recruit them.
And you're now draining these communities
of that, you know, that
talent, and then they would just leave
them.
And so they felt that they were
contributing
a lot to developing talent for these
companies.
And then the companies wouldn't allow the
people the space to participate in the
projects once they were gainfully employed.
So they
want to celebrate that.
But companies or, you know, organizations,
they have to realize
that if you're taking something froma
community
you should be replacing it or giving it
back
and sothat you don't leave those
communities in the large
because I would hate to see
you know, some, you know, community that gets
on the, you know, the ban list for Apache
Foundation becausethey all of a sudden
lost some key talent asa result of someone
you
know, poaching them, right?
But, you know, we want to celebrate them
and give them meaningful
career opportunities.
But I think that we all, it's incumbent
upon all of us to make sure
that anything thatwe're taking fromthe
community
that we're replacing it exponentially.
Oh, that would be great. We're not seeing
a lot of that in practice.
I'm working on it.
I think one of the challenges is that we
expect almost quid pro quo.
And the reality is that
every consumer of open source, whether you're
a government, an individual, or a private
sector company,they benefit far more than
they could ever contribute back because
open
sources become foundational to everything
we do in software.
And software, as Adriana
mentioned earlier, is eating the world.
And so, you know, there's no way we will
be able
to compensate the open source community
writ large equal to the benefit that
we gain from
it. But we must protect against it
becoming a tragedy of the commons.
Thank you all to the panelists.
I think by the schedule, I would like to
open it up for
questions, comments, earlier to have a
little bit more space for this.
I believe we have
about 30 minutes or 25 minutes left.
So, I see already a hand up in the back.
So, let's
go for it. >> Thank you so much. >> Oh,
Kyoto. Adam Hyde from Koko. Very happy
to be here.
Thanks to Kat Alman for inviting me.
So, open source in the area of the model
of production that scale seems to be proven
out very well in the, you know, the itch to
scratch model.
We have developers that have a problem and
they are enabled to solve it
because they have the means to solve it.
So, when it comes to technical problems,
it can
scale very well.
But you're also talking about solving
social problems with it.
And that
seems to suggest thatyou have folks with
the capacity to solve problems to create
software.
But they're not necessarily the people
that have the problem that's being solved.
So,
there's a gap.
So, I'm just wondering about that means of
production.
How does that scale?
What are the stakeholders involved in
that?
I think it's a problem that's more common
in the platform space wherethe end user is
a consumer WHO
is not anywhere near the production
of the technology.
So, I'm just wondering what your thoughts
are around that.
The politics
of stakeholder's problems, that kind of
thing. How do you get it to scale?
Let me just try to repeat that the
question to make sure I understand it.
So, the scratch
and itch model of production works really
well for purely technical problems. But as
we try to expand the remit of open source
to include to tackle social issues
you know
it's the feedback loop.
And so, one of the part of my answer is
maybe open source can't
solve all the world's problems.
And maybe that's a place where it does
fall down.
But
I think that's one possible answer.
Another possible answer is if it's not
just scratch
your own itch froma technical perspective
I think there needs to be money injected
into
the cycle in order to incent people to
work on those kinds of problems.
The idea that,
you know,the intersection of people
thatknow enough about
the social problem to solve them
and know enough about technology to build
the software to solve them, that's a very,
very small group of people on a global
scale.
And I think to get technical people to
solve
the problem is you're going to have to
communicate what the requirements are
what the problem
is you're trying to solve
and you're probably going to have to pay
them both to build it
and to maintain it.
The idea of free production, just based
on, you know, intrinsic personal
motivations, I think breaks down in
certain cases.
And I think that's an example where
it probably,it probably
you can't just assume it's going to work
without putting some real
economic incentives into the mix.
David just made a comment thatthe
governments cannot hope to contribute as
much to open-source
production as the software developers.
Maybe if you could look at it from a
different perspective
of focusing on the problems,social
problems,and include developing practitioners
government
officers, policy makers into the
open-source mix.
They may not be able to write code, but
they may be able to actually come up witha
very accurate and
possibly evolving the definition
of the problem.
So they're already paid by somebody,
right?
Nations and corporations.
So if they feel thatthey're part of the
problem definition and
they're providing specification
to solve,to be solved by the software
developers
then I think that's a much larger
community
of open-source. And the community of
problems can actually bring those people in.
I want to highlight, you know, Demetrius was
talking about this earlier, that it's not
just code, and that there is much more to
open-source than writing a line of code and
shipping a release of software. Some of it
comes down to, can we even talk about the
problem space? And I do think we have to
think about open-source as larger than just
software.
I said I wasn't going to agree with Mike
on everything.
But I think that there
is very much a problem space where
open-source is not the perfect solution.
And, you know,
while I am, in most audiences, I would say
I'm the most pro-open-source person in the
room.
I'm not sure that that's true here.
But, you know, I don't know that
open-source
can or should tackle every problem that
the world has to offer.
It is a methodology.
It's
one that's worked well for a number of
technological problems.
I don't know that we can solve
all of them.
>> If I may just come in for a few
seconds.
I think if we -- I mean, yesterday, Lucy,
I think it was WHO mentioned that instead
of open-source -- not instead, but maybe if
we could open the embedded open-source
intodigital public goods
then I think the scope
becomes much larger.
And that's where the DPJ Alliance, the
GovStacks of the world actually
are working. So that's a possibility that
we can explore. Thank you.
>> All right.
I see a number of hands.
I have no idea how to call on things in
order.
So what happens? >> I see Dwayne right in
the middle.
>> I'm waiting for it to turn around.
There we are.
Thank you.
And thank you for the panel.
Bone Demetris has left.
I really wanted her perspective on this
one in particular.
But
we talk a lot in this space about companies
doing the right thing, or getting involved
in open-source or getting back to
open-source.
Companies can't do the right thing.
They're
not people. All of us WHO run open-source
program offices or have, we know that when
we leave thatrole andtake a role in
another organization
the open-source program changes.
We bring our own perspectives.
The program that I run is not the program
Remy runs or
that Gil runs or that Sophia would run.
So how can we get the open-source culture
that
we want more deeply embedded in these
organizations soit survives when
we all have to shuffle
chairs every couple of years? >> Thank
you. I saw Karen's hand go up early.
So I'm going to call on Karen.
>> The thing I wanted to say does actually
sort of address
that question,which I was going to say
that
I think we can't underestimate the
importance
of governance in all and foundations in
this role in this work.
I'm sorry.
I should introduce
myself.
I'm Karen Sandler.
I'm the executive director of the software
freedom conservancy.
We run a bunch of different
programs,including outreach-y
which is a paid internship program
for folks subject to systemic bias.
I would say that the governance component
is often
missing in our space.
We're keen to send money to maintainers
but not necessarily take the
time to really evaluate how is that
community run, how are decisions run.
David was talking
about this in the context of the advocacy
software foundation
not accepting single developer
projects.
It's the same at many of the organizations
that
are in physical sponsorship roles like
software freedom conservancy like we do or
like NEM focus.
These fiscal sponsors that
take this governance role play a really
important component and
I think are often overlooked.
I would say thatthis kind of governance
conversation actually plays into-- comes
intoplay more
often than you would think with our outreach-y
project, for example, having that kind of
overarching review over projects
andcommunities that
join outreach-y really has a greater
impact
than just the specific internships.
A high percentage of our participants say
that they
would never have started an open source if
they did not have a program inviting
people
like them to participate andthat they
otherwise wouldn't give it a try
but every community
that participates in outreach-y does
things like creating small tasks for
people to work
on designating times whenmentors are
available to talk to people
creating standards for
conduct and, you know, having some procedures
to deal with toxic individuals and I think
that that kind of governance and review is
something that should -- we really need to
spend a lot more time on andit's something
thatthe companies and
governmental institutions
and everybody else WHO's participating in
an institutional way needs to recognize
and
support.
Thank you for the great advertisement for the
value of foundations and -- but to Duane's
question, so we struggle with that all the
time.
I mean, like foundations live and die
on their fiscal sponsors andwhen people
change,you can,you know,big thing
big impacts
can happen and as far as -- and I totally
agree that, you know, corporations can't do the
right thing butwhat corporations can sometimes
be trained to do is follow a process.
So one
of the things I think maybe to think about
on the OSPO side of things is get your
organization
to adopt processes thatare written down
thatwill survive your departure and
moving along
to a different thing.
Nobody likes to write down processes but
sometimes that's the best
legacy you can leave behind when
you move on especially in the context of
an OSPO because
if that's the formally adopted process
forthe corporation
sometimes they'll just keep
doing it because that's what's written
down.
But fundamentally, I mean, you know,
people
are messy and they're great but everything
that we -- you know, to a large degree, we
talk about the open source ecosystem, the
open source community, like how much of the
stuff that we do is based on the personal
relationships we all have.
And there's -- I
don't think there's any kind of walk of
life where that isn't true.
And so we can either
-- we can try to formalize it as much as we
can which is basically what I'm encouraging
to do but
I don't think we ever really want to take
the personal relationships out of the
mix either.
>> Strongly support that.
I'm going to call right here.
I don't know what your name is.
Please introduce yourself.
>> I actually have a question so I don't
know if I should ask that now. Thank you.
Hi, I am Q.
I'm the leader of P5.js, an open source
art and education tool for learning
to code with a strong focus on accessibility
supported by the processing foundation.
P5
is created and led by women and queer
people of color.
The lack of diversity in the open
source is profound.
According to the open source survey in
2017, less than 5% of open
source development work worldwide is led by
queer trends, by park women and fans with
even fewer in the global south, like in
China where I'm from.
P5 has received funding from
someone fromGoogle to support global
contributors witha strong focus on paying for
women and
queer people of color WHO normally have
less privilege to contribute.
So my question to
the panelists is how can governments and
organizations better support open source
leaders,maintainers
and contributors. Thank you. >> So if I
can be vocally self-critical,
I will tell you thatmost open source
organizations,including Apache
are not great at it.
We're
not great at encouraging diverse voices or
empowering people to participate unless
they're
already in a very privileged position.
I think some programs like outreach that
Karen Sandler
mentioned a moment ago are interesting
steps that
are helping to perhaps add some diversity
and add opportunity forpeople to
contribute but
I think it needs to be a measured response
and your specific question was abouthow
governments can do that
and I would say they should be
looking at the people WHO have gone before
them like the Software Freedom Conservancy
and the outreach program and
Google has also run summer of code to help
provide additional
incentive to folks WHO might otherwise not
have the privilege of spending their time
working on open source software.
And so I think they should certainly be
looking at that as
opportunities to learn and figure out how
to invest.
I'll tell you that from a purely
open source perspective, I don't think
we've done a great job on our own.
>> In the morning
keynote presentation I think Adriana
andAndreas actually talked about
the last slide was there
were six things if you remember.
And I'm just looking at some of them
standardization, digital
commons, education and training and core
development.
I think some of these things, if the right
or SPO can be created, can actually be
driven, some of these can be driven by that.
The government
can mandate thatwhatever open source
software is consumed and
produced have to have some
of these attributes built into them.
Basically inclusion of women, I also want
to point out
that inclusion of persons with
disabilities is an important aspect.
We work with Daisy
Consortium andin Bangladesh you have
actually seen inclusion of persons with
disability in
our policy making circle
in our development community has actually
changed the way we
look at things.
So I think that marginalized or they
excluded communities, be it gender,
be it persons with disabilities, need to
be included by mandate.
Sometimes that mandate
could come fromthe government,sometimes
thatmandate could come fromthe community
open
source community themselves.
But it has to be written down perhaps, it
has to be actually
marked as a requirement by both sides.
Thank you.
>> Yeah,our communities are typically
starve enough forresources that
we don't want to
turn anybody down regardless of where
they're coming from.
But one thing I'll say is just
add to everything that's already been said
is the eclipse foundation published last
week
some research that we did on open source
in the global south.
And one of the sort of two
encouraging things andI encourage every
people to go to our home page andfind it and
read
it andone of the things thatwas very
strong in that
is in the global south it's like they're
already making,Google south is already
making huge contributions to open source and
they
probably don't, it probably doesn't get as
much recognition as it deserves.
And also,
but it was specifically called out
thatwomen in particular find open source as
an opportunity
for career growth and empowerment.
And so that was one of the strong results
that came
out of the survey that we did.
So I mean, I think there's lots of work
that still needs
to be done.
But it does seem that there's some
encouraging signs out there that can be
found if you look at the data.
>> Thank you for the question. Thank you
for the responses. There's a light on right
in front of me. Yes. >> Go ahead.
>> Hi there. My name is Denise Cooper. I
founded Intersource Commons and did a bunch
of other stuff, but that's the thing I'm
doing now.
So a really good panel, thank you very
much.
And when he said, when he told me he was
going to say corporations are not people,
I wanted to say something else about that.
Sometimes corporations are still looking
for
open source halo by making large statements
about loving open source and being on our
side now and blah, blah, blah.
And then when you actually try to work
with them outside
of Silicon Valley,they have not
promulgated that
message evenly within their own company.
And what would be really cool is if people
WHO
can apply pressure of any kind would push
that sothat it would be reasonable to,for
advocates like myself
to have global conversations
because we all live in a global
world,those of us thathave been flying for
this movement
for the last 30 years, right?
To actually have a conversation with
somebody WHO has been
briefed fromit within and
doesn't have to be relying on whatever
they were told to say
25 years ago.
Any chance that we think that people could
do that?
I mean, Mike, you know,
we're in a position to do that, I think.
And foundations work together for
education a
little bit more than they do now.
But I know you guys have a pretty good
education program.
I'm shocked to think that you think I'm
that powerful.
So there's lots of corporations
in this room that could help.
But I think it's still fundamentally boils
down to the same
challenge that people are uneven.
And I have never met any corporation where
the embracing
of -- so any corporation is sort of bigger
than 100 people where the embracing of open
source is uniform through the entire
organization.
I don't believe that that company exists.
There's been -- there's centers of
excellence,but there's,you know
even companies that
are very highly recognized asbeing strong
open source proponents
you can certainly find
pockets in them that don't get it.
So I think we still have lots of work to
do.
I do think
that these things like,you
know,manifestos,open source manifestos that
are being published
by a bunch of German automakers and so on
are a signal of progress, but they're not a
signal of success.
I just -- so I think we just have to make
sure that we're interpreting
them correctly.
I mean, it's a success that they were able
to publish them, but it's a
step along a journey. It's not the end of
the journey.
Mike, I'll agree with you.
I think that it is a very long journey.
A near and I were talking
before the panel about how to inculcate that
open source culture in governments and in
businesses, and inculcating that culture
is really hard.
I mean, frankly, it's not even
consistent across different open source
communities and
becomes very difficult to inculcate not
only the open source culture
but an understanding of the importance of
open source to society
and to businesses.
And so I think that that will be a
challenge for us, and I know it's
one that you worked on for many years at a
number of your employers.
I think maybe it's
job security for all of us, because I
don't think this work is going to stop.
So I just want to point out thatthere is
one small sign of perhaps progress that
coming
from governments,which is a shock to
actually saying this out loud
but some elements of
regulation might actually help the open
source community.
So one of the things that we have
not figured this out yet
but the Cyber Resilience Act is basically
going to force corporations
for the first time in history to actually
give a crap about their upstream projects.
They have a positive obligation to perform
due diligence on the open source projects
that they're shipping in their
products,and that
form of horizontal regulation has never
existed before.
I don't know exactly how that's going to
play out, but that is a different
kind of economic nudge thatcould incent
corporate behavior in the right way that
has not existed
before.
I'm not sure if I'm optimistic yet, but
it's at least an interesting opportunity
for how this could play out differently in
the future.
Let me add to what David said earlier,just
the discussion thathe and
I had on the culture
of open source thinking.
I think governments will be much more
amenable to that, because
governments don't make money by selling
software.
So I strongly believe that public services
can be improved greatly by using open
source.
So governments will actually embrace open
source. But what are corporations going to
do? It's a question to Sophia actually. I
don't know if I have to ask questions.
What can Google do to promote open source
or Microsoft?
I will say candidly, the work is never
done.
It's just continual.
I've been in the open
source programs office for four years now.
And companies shift.
The people make up of
the company is constantly changing.
And so while maybe the core group of
people understood
it, five years later, it's a whole new
group of people.
And you have to kind of reconvert
and re-educate. And so I honestly think in
the open source programs office, our work
is never done.
We're constantly doing this, and we have
to consistently keep doing it
in order to try to preserve and encourage
a culture of contribution.
I'm going to take
one more question. On second row in the
back, you've had your head up for a while.
Thank you very much, Sophia.
My name is Yusuf Abdul Khadir.
I'm here representing the Africa
Community Internet Program
which is a collaboration between the
Africa Open Data Internet Research
Foundation at Syracuse University.
So really, a few key reflections and then
a question.
One reflection is the last time I was in
this room.
It was about nine years ago for the
Sustainable Development Goals and helping
to advocate on behalf of them.
So to kind of
shift us intothe theme of this really
important convening around Ospoels forGood
I want to
ask the question to David and then to
Anir.
As a Bangladeshi Jamai, my wife is
Bangladeshi,
Bangladeshi is a particular space in my
heart.
And so I want to make sure to be keen to
ask
you a question as well.
In the last few years, we've seen a
catastrophic series.
In fact,
this week, it's disgustingly hot here in
New York.
We've felt it.
I have worn five outfits,
not because I'm a prima donna, but largely
because it's very hot. And so I've had to
change my clothes a few times because of
the heat.
And it's a reflection of the continual
shifting climate that we're experiencing.
We had a really important robust
conversation
yesterday on a panel that talked about the
Global South. I would want to change the
word to Global Majority just becausethat's
wherewords have particular and
explicit meaning
and the words that we choose to use still
present a kind of subordinate role of the
majority of the planet.
The majority of the people that are most
desperately and directly
impacted by the very conversations
thatwe're having here today and
that happen in this
room every day of the year.
And so to the question, how do we make
sure that we not just
have really important conversations,convenings,not
thatwe talk aboutthe right words
not
that we,and I think you rightly put
it,David,reference and
recognize the tragedies of the
commons thatcan be facilitated by not
explicitly focusing on centering andempowering
andbuilding
and investing in diverse people,not
because
and I know someone said corporations
aren't
people, I think Mitt Romney might
disagree.
He would probably say corporations are
people.
That's another conversation for another
day.
How do we make sure that we really do take
the theme of this discussion of OSPO's for
good and make sure that open source program
offices, that policy makers, that innovators,
that academics, I have a receding hairline
because I wear multiple hats, so I also
work at meta.
How do we make sure the corporations
ensure that when we speak about for good, that
the good is not just about buzzwords, that
it's aboutensuring thatwe transform the
conditions of the people for
whom these really
important conversations are sent around.
So how do we, to just be more direct about
the
question,how do we use this forum today
asa catalyst to not just accelerate but
actually
successfully implement the very
lagging,sustainable development goals and
achieve all of our
human dignity,because this group of people
here are dynamic andbrilliant
but the part
that worries me about
being here nine years after the passage of
the Sustainable Development
Goals is that we are further now today
than we've ever been.
So what role can we play
here? Long question, lots of reflections.
>> Can we all get about 30 seconds to
respond because we're out of time?
>> Okay.
So, because I have 30 seconds, I think
that you should not be looking to people
like Mike or myself to solve those
problems.
We as a community, an open source
community,
not just the community of people here
today
are going to have to take ownership of
that
problem.
>> 30 seconds.
So the six things that Andrea and Adriana
actually put on the last slide,
I think is an answer to that.
And also on a personal note, I'll actually
maybe change
the name of our network fromsouth-south
network for
public service innovation to majority
network for public service innovation.
Thank you.
>> All right. I'm going to cap it. Thank
you so much to our panelists. Thank you for
all the questions we received.
I'm sorry we weren't able to get to all of
them, but we
will be here.
Please come talk to us.
Clearly, we're passionate about this
topic.
So keep
you the questions coming and thank you so
much for your participation.
[ Applause ]
>> Hi, everyone. So what a great start to
the day. I really enjoyed that discussion.
Thank you to Adriana, Sofia and the rest of
our panel for leading such interesting and
timely discussions.
We're actually going to build on this
discussion a little bit and
continue to be a bit more interactive.
So initially on your agenda, you would
have seen
that we had prepared breakout sessions.
What we're going to do more is kind of a
facilitated
roundtable discussion withsome members of
the audience andpeople that
we've identified
in the chamber to kind of continue this
conversation around open source innovation
andopen source
at work in the world.
So to lead us through that discussion,
please welcome back Omar.
>> Hi, everyone. [ Applause ]
So this is an interesting portion of the
conference wherewe just -- there's just so
many incredible
people in the room thatwe want to give
opportunity to others
to a lot of some of you to share
with us your experiences.
So I have an amazing lineup of people.
I'll be calling on and just
please make sure you press the microphone.
You have three, four minutes if you could
talk
to us about the work that you're doing in
open source and try to inspire us about some
of the successes and maybe you'll also share
with us some of the challenges you get.
So
my first speaker would be Phuimang from
UNICEF's Digital Center of Excellence.
>> Thank you, Omar.
And it's been a great two days and first
congratulations for pulling
us all together.
So a little bit about UNICEF.
Yesterday, I have a colleague that
actually
was on the panel talking aboutthe work
thatwe do andshe mentioned aboutUNICEF and
innovation.
So what I want to share today with
everyone is what do we do UNICEF in using
open source
to contribute to the achievement of
child's rights around the world.
We are seeing an
avalanche of transformation with the
governments.
A lot of the governments that we work with
so far is going through digital
transformation.
And if digital is an enabling function to
make governments to better deliver results
for children, then we see open source is a
very, very key tool.
In terms of the work that we do with
governments comprising from
health,education,child protection
so I just want to give a few examples to
reassure the
group here today that governments are with
us and it's about how we engage with them.
With health in the health sector,UNICEF
has been working with
our partner Digital Square
to maintain the repository of mature open
source solutions thatactually range from
health
information system to facility registries
to vaccine supply chain systems. So all of
this work is it's abouthow to help
governments to think aboutadaptations
improvements and
usage of those health, digital public
goods in an effective and fast manner.
So the example
that we can give is thatthe open source
health management information system DHIS2
the district
health information system too that has been
used in more than 40 countries in Africa,
Asia and Latin America.
The list doesn't stop there considering
UNICEF's mandate is across
health, education, child protection and the
list goes on to actually advance the rights
of children.
We also have extensive work in education,
child protection and so forth.
One
of the things thatit's worthwhile to
mention is that
we're also very much behind a messaging
platform called RapidPro whereby it
integrates withthe rest
the range of messaging tools
such as WhatsApp that we use to communicate
and engage with end users including medical
healthcare workers,promote real time
monitoring andthis is an open source platform
andthis
is also a digital public good thatwe have
been promoting andusing for
the last 10 years.
And this is I think in the latest data
that
we have we're actually transacting more
than
a billion messages annually andagain this
is an open source solution and
that has been
scaled widely.
In the last two days especially during the
panel just now I hear it over and
over again abouthow do we increase the
adoption and
use of DPGs or just open source software?
It is not an easy feat but I think what I
want to share about our experience is that
the key challenges thatwe see in the UN
and
the broader open source ecosystem it's
about
lack of skill,lack of sustainability
andlack of adoption while
UNICEF is not a tech company
but we try our best to see how we could
push the envelope becausewe think that
with the
governments thatwe are working withthe
more asa UN organization we push that
narrative
the better it is for the open source
community.
The way that we do this is not by giving
them
money to say you just use it the way that
we do it is on the capacity building rather
than treating open source asa distinct
subject our internal efforts as
focus on how to help
the government to strengthen their business
analysis practice whenthey come to us so
that
they can plan for digital initiatives for
programmatic delivery.
We specifically emphasize
on the notion of digital resilience which
cover information security data protection
ethical use of data software maturity
assessment total cost of ownership so
these are the areas
that we find most of the end user of open
source which is in this case the government
can find it really useful so some foot for
thought for the community here when you think
about how you want to solve the problem
and have that entry point.
The last thing I want
to share is the fact that
we continue to face challenge of the key
obstacle of funding.
It is not an easy one despite the fact
thatyou know we have foundations and
governments
are interested for it but how to fund open
source for good projects that can last for
a very very long time the way that we try
to solve this problem is not to ask for more
money is actually to create a strong
business ecosystem sothat the companies that
behind
the open source community and
the open source software could actually be
self sustained
and grow andwe are now experimenting
various funding model the latest one that
we are experimenting
is called social franchising that we are
using it on a open source app called Okey.
With that
I want to hand it back to you Omar I
continue to look foryou know ideas and
comments from
the amazing community here for us to
advance our work.
Thank you for your name.
We have
as a second speaker a hand from CERN if
you could be too many.
Thank you very much Omar
it's a pleasure for me to be here.
CERN you know this particle accelerator at
CERN you
wonder you know what what do we hear.
Interesting enough I think we have a long
history of open
signs and open source and open data and that
has found its way through a large physics
community around the world butwe really
care also to see how can all that
software that
has been developed over the last decades be
used for other use cases and other domains
and in fact that's where
we see most of the interesting innovations
happening you know
we have examples of software developed at
CERN in biology and health care and fraud
attacks andwhat have you and
my message here would be at CERN or OSPO
believes of course
we should save the internal community WHO
should help people understand how to get
everything
to open source butalso I think the OSPO
plays a role to accommodate for
creating partnerships
beyond our own domain because that's where
most interesting innovation aspects happen
if you put people as a physics background
together with people as a biology background
and what we've learned there is it's not a
matter of just throwing the software over
the
wall but really to set a project so people
collaborate together and you look for funding
and I believe all thatis a role of the
Ospos aswell so
that's what I wanted to bring across
I believe thatif you want to do OSPO
forgood we have to roll up the sleeves and
create
these projects together. Thank you. Thank
you very much.
As a next speaker we have with us Mr.
Frederick Blachetta WHO's the chief data
officer at
the German Chancellor.
Mark and thanks everyone for being here.
I mean it's astonishing last
year I don't know WHO
has been there we were sitting in a small
room downstairs I think
it was right so in Omar and others were of
course showing us also around a little bit
and we were also here on the second floor
also in the Echosog room. We were not able
to go to the Echosog room because President
Modi was doing the World Yoga Day here at
the facilities and
for bad weather reasons every one of the
bigger rooms have been reserved
so it was possible to do that
because it was only I think 60 to 70
people roundish maybe
free digit I don't know butit is
astonishing to see also as
part of the program committee
where we are now with
all of you here in the room I mean many of
you are new of the conference
last year just afterwards and
we're like what was happening there why
haven't we been invited
and it's great to see you all here
andthanks again to the UN,to you Omar and
the team for
this very huge occasion and for this great
organization thank you so much.
I think yes
you should do round of applause.
It has been numerous exciting contexts in
various spaces
of the ecosystem during the last days and
as Omar mentioned my role is focusing a lot
more on initiatives in data science and
artificial intelligence in the German
government soI
could elaborate a lot more on the specific
topics I did with
some of you already during
the last days but what I would like to do
right now is taking a more general approach
and a more some more general hypothesis
maybe to give us also an avocados di aboli
to get
to think a little bit more aboutsome of
these topics so
my first hypothesis I'm always giving
this one out becauseI think it's important
to keep thatin mind when
you're interacting
with government organizations is the
maturity of government IT organizations is
relatively
low and the maturity means in many various
ways it is not in that one specific way in
the IT management or in the IT operations
or any other but rather in all of them so we
see in governments throughout the globe
that
governments are a little bit behind what
you
get asan experience or anything similar
not only in the interaction itself but
also in
the management of IT by themselves so
to what does this lead I mean we are
always talking
about Verizon was here andwe know
aboutother fortune 500 andothers about
how open source
of where is such widespread during all of
these companies and this comes for a reason
because they have high maturity in their
IT organizations andwhat this makes for
governments
is governments make hard choices andfor
them the hard choices they go with
the dependency
in most of the ways becauseit's easier for
them to have a bundling to get the
services
also andto go thatroute andI'm not saying
that
this is the best way obviously also part
why I'm here is I think we have to change
this forvarious ways but
I think we have to find
the right solution for that and also to get
that into our minds a little bit more when
we get intothe exchange not being too
upfront on these butthink about
how we can get this
networking more together andI think
conference like these are instrumental forthat
butwe
need also more institutionalized
approaches for
this we need institutionalized
organizations
which are putting these these efforts
together the efforts that
we saw today in the morning
by Germany withZendes and
the sovereign tech fund I think are good
practices of how governments
on the national level can work ahead
butthey are just national level efforts so
they they
are not at all contributions to a
multinational as
also the open source system exchange the
second hypothesis I would love to mention
is on the hypothesis that
Adriana did in the
morning thatthe success of open source
software is eating open source because
I think we have
to discuss this a little bit more I mean I
was working also in the private sector in
advisory also for tech companies and open
source companies and to be honest and don't
shoot me on this one please open source is
too complex in many ways so
what I just mentioned
before the maturity of IT organizations is
bad but there's also another side of that
of course right sofor an outsider asI was
like five years ago and
then starting to get
into the field to be honest at least in
the German andEuropeans part also it is so
segmented
it is so fragmented it is so many players in
the space which are not really coordinated
which are not always working trustful
together they are not always keeping the open
source
principles by heart on themselves and
I think this is something everyone has to
work up on
also in this room we need those bridge
builders andwe need transparency and
trustful connections
to work up on the way that
we can really see open source growing also
in the government
area andalso as
we discussed I think this is a very
important point throughout the globe
be it the globe itself or be it the
developed countries by themselves so
I would like to
sum this up a little bit andjust say I
think places like this wherethe ecosystem
fromall
of the different stakeholders is coming
together are the right places we need we it
is
asalways
as these kinds of workshops and
retreats right everyone is walking around
afterwards we are
all going home we are like wow it was
soexciting you know and
nobody is doing a real follow-up
so what I ask all of you to do in the room
is think about
this hypothesis or the hypothesis
that you found very useful in the last days
spread the word on them whichever medium
is
the right one foryou guys andgirls and
let's try to to get yourself to follow-ups
which
you are really following throughwith
someone in this room that
we can really build this on
and maybe next year we need a bigger room
forthis one thank you somuch and
have a nice
time thank you thank you so much mr.
Blasheta smart man tell me one day a code
that I use
all the time he said if if data is the new
gold software is its refineries and I use
that all the time becausewe tend to forget
the power and
the importance of software the
president WHO's had this code is here
withus sosay yet should we from
Carnegie Mellon University
thank you Omar I am the associate dean for
digital infrastructure and director of the
open source programs office at Carnegie
Mellon University University hospitals are
still relatively
new sothere's no definitive blueprint
butrather set up early experiences and
lessons learned
we are learning fromexisting ospos
particularly fromthe private sector through
exchanges with
the software foundations butwe also need
to adapt existing OSPO frameworks for
the academic
context given the unique mission culture
andstrategy it's also important to note
thateach
academic division within the university
has its own mission culture andstrategy as
well
at the heart of universities thatthe
pillars of research education and
translation of research
and education for various reasons such as
commercialization and community impact
so we are exploring the world that
open source software can play to support
these pillars of a
university fundamentally the CMU OSPO acts
as
a community convener a center of
competency and
a set of services thathelp better identify
andmanage sustain and
share software we are actively
engaged in what can be accomplished as
our open source software reaches a level
of maturity and
capacity examples include multiple projects
to support the sustainable development
goals and
digital public goods research around
cybersecurity supporting automated science
particularly towards
democratizing science andeducation using
open source software asa laboratory with
hands-on
real-world software engineering experience
forstudents WHOwork withthe mentors from
those
open source projects it's important forme
to note that
CMU is part of a new network called
curious whichis spelled c-u-r-i-o-s-s the
community of university and
research institution
OSPO's it includes 20 university or research
institution OSPO's within the u-s and
europe
with support fromthe alpha p Sloan
foundation through
this network we are starting to explore
what we can do is our collective open
source capacity grows one example is a new
program
we are launching next week at CMU called
the open forum for
AI this is a university led partnership
with CMU working withthree other OSPO's
fromthe curious network and
also partnerships include
open source initiative andAtlantic Council
withindividual fellows from
the private and
government sector the goal is to bend the
arc toward responsible ethical and
transparent AI
through original research technical
prototypes community engagement policy
recommendations
and talent forservice we feel that
this is one of the first examples of how a
network of
university OSPO's can come together to
build capacity andto have influence through
OSPO's
for good many of the other university
curious university OSPO leaders are in the
room i would
encourage you to talk withthem soyou can
find out aboutthe excellent work that
they are doing
as well thank you thank you very much say
it for
reminding us the importance of OSPO's we
hear
all forthe forthese two days to celebrate
the OSPO's the concept of OSPO's so
thank you for
showing us forsharing with
us some of the lessons of building one my
next speaker i want to go to
Wolfgang WHO's the head of OSPO forMercedes-Benz
it's a very interesting case study
thatOSPO
that Wolfgang would share withus as
i mentioned yesterday we're in the process
of building
the UN open source principles and
we want these to once they are approved by
by all of us all the
UN agencies to transcend beyond the UN and
Wolfgang had an interesting example of how
it went beyond the car industry please
yeah thank you um so
we first adopted open source
in open source intoour official IT
strategy at Mercedes-Benz in 2018 and
two years later in
2020 we first published our Mercedes-Benz
FOS manifesto which
is a public commitment to
FOS free andopen source software andso
it's a set of rules andguidelines which
proclaim the
importance of FOS fora modern tech
organization with
the goal to facilitate the cultural change
in Mercedes-Benz IT andsubsidiaries
towards in-run open source so
it doesn't only allow our engineers
to use FOS butit actually actively sends
them on that
mission to use FOS in your own development
yes butplease also contribute back andalso
publish more andmore of our own stuff as
open source
in order to be a good citizen in the open
source world and
there's still more work to do in the
company of course buti think it's been
quite a success sofar or as
Mike earlier put it in progress
which is already good right the FOS
manifesto itself is open source with
the most permissive
license in order to well encourage anybody
any company to take it anddo with
it what they want
to you know take it andthen change it
adopted to their company principles and
several big companies
have sofar done exactly that
the first ones to adopt it was the
continental automotive company
and then followed by Siemens andthen
Porsche joined andthen Aetas WHO
is a Bosch company
and then at the end of last year was the
German railroad company Deutsche Bahn
and just a few weeks ago the latest
adoptions thati know of are fromKariat from
Volkswagen
and also the German software giant SAP
soso far the manifesto has been for
the private sector
but a related activity at the United Nations
is what Omar just mentioned andtalked
aboutyesterday
the ongoing work withthe open source
principles andi'm i'm absolutely sure that
these are going
to be a huge success withthe power to make
a real difference in the world sorry so
at Mercedes
Benz we're also supporting open source by
being members of several open source
foundations
WHO do a tremendously good job to foster
open source and
we also sponsor open source projects
financially andhere i also hope thatthis
can be a model forother companies because
this can
really help to make open source more
sustainable right if every company just gives a
little bit
it will add up to a big amount so
i'm really curious Omar to see what the
final open source
principles fromthe United Nations are
going to be andso thank you for
this thank you Omar for
the great work andthanks everybody else
soi had time there to be to arrive to be 12
andi
think we're like two minutes before soi
think you're the last speaker so
that's perfect timing
i pass it to Nick forso we are now aboutto
have a lunch break forone hour so
please be back in
the room at two o'clock i had a lot of
questions soif you go through
the third floor you go down
there's an elevator thattakes you to the
fourth floor wherethere's a cafeteria so
but not this
elevator right here go down cross andthen
another big set of elevators and
then you will be able
to get to the fourth floor cafeteria if you
go 1b you can go to another cafeteria so
there are
two cafeterias in here please let's be
back at two o'clock we have a very very
interesting
panel about open source and use
a one o'clock sorry it's one in one hour
post so
let's please be here at one o'clock let me
say
one o'clock for UNICEF run panel open
source and use thank you everyone